---
date: 2014-12-01
weight: 40
title: "Intelligent Management of Multiple Decentralised Solar/Energy Storage Systems"
collaborators:
- name: David Howey
  url: http://epg.eng.ox.ac.uk/users/david-howey
  institute: Energy and Power Group, Engineering Science, University of Oxford
- name: Stephen Duncan
  url: http://www.eng.ox.ac.uk/control/people/professor-stephen-duncan
  institute: Control Group, Engineering Science, University of Oxford
excerpt: "We aim to develop an intelligent, distributed, energy storage system for distributed renewable power generation facilities."
papers:
    - riar_energy_2016
---

The objective of this 3-year project is to develop a networked, peer-to-peer, decentralised, distributed energy storage system (ESS) for grid energy storage for distributed renewable power generation facilities. The ESS will include an energy management system (EMS) with decentralised prediction of energy supply, energy demand and battery health, incorporating a controller to optimise energy usage and storage system life, based on these predictions. 

Grid energy storage serves many purposes, such as providing rapid reserve (in place of spinning reserve), area control and frequency response, power quality and fault reliability, transmission system stability and load management. Wind power without ESS may lead to stability issues on the power grid. Countries with small reserve margin may especially benefit from ESS.

A variety of electrochemical ESS technologies are relevant across a very wide power/size range e.g. 1 kW to 10+ MW with time constants from seconds to hours. This includes lead acid batteries, sodium sulphur batteries, supercapacitors, lithium-ion batteries and redox flow batteries. There is particular attraction in coupling batteries to local renewable energy generation for load balancing (over a period of a few hours) in order to improve the economics. For example a 1 MWh container-sized battery system could be sited next to a wind farm, or a 1 kWh small, cupboard-sized, system could be placed in a domestic household with a PV system.

In all cases there is a need to avoid early failure and maximise revenue streams from generated electricity. Systems installed on the power grid need to last for long periods of time, e.g. 25-40 years if possible. Currently available ESS are not able to do this optimally, because this requires accurate forecasting of (a) electricity generation from a variable source, (b) optimisation of electricity usage from a varying local load, (c) product health - battery degradation. There are significant technical challenges in addressing these problems, particularly the design of flexible, decentralised, systems for controlling energy usage, based upon predictions of supply and demand: this project addresses these challenges.

Our decentralised predictive algorithms will correct weaknesses of current storage systems, enabling robust and reliable systems that deliver value over multiple decades.  Our system is also not vulnerable to the failure of any individual node. Moreover, our predictive algorithms will forecast changes in supply or demand to enable corrective response, thereby lending our system robustness to such changes. Finally, our predictive analytics will monitor the state of health of energy storage systems and to identify the likely preconditions of failure events and reduced performance. As such, potential failure events can be flagged and avoided before they occur, while the decentralised control means that a faulty node could be “hot-swapped” without compromising the overall decentralised system effectiveness.
